Add jellyfish dashboard quickstart (#31)
jellyfish-dev/jellyfish-docs: docs/tutorials/dashboard.mdx

---
title: Jellyfish Dashboard
---

import { ImageWrapper } from "./ImageWrapper";
import StartingJellyfishBackend from "./common/_starting-jellyfish-backend.mdx";
import StartingJellyfishDashboard from "./common/_starting-dashboard.mdx";

# The Whats and Hows of Jellyfish Dashboard

## What is Jellyfish Dashboard?

Jellyfish Dashboard is a web application that allows you to manage your
Jellyfish backend. It is a React application that uses the Jellyfish React Client API
to communicate with the backend.

It was created to help Jellyfish developers in testing but was later extended and
adapted to as a tool for tutorials and demos. Here we present a short introduction to
the dashboard and its features.

## How to start Jellyfish Dashboard?

> <StartingJellyfishDashboard/>

Reviewer: Nice command sharing :+1:

## How to start Jellyfish Backend?

> <StartingJellyfishBackend/>

Reviewer 2: I just noticed, that in the docker command we are locked on a specific jellyfish version. I think instead we could put a placeholder here, like so:

"""
```bash
docker run -p 50000-50050:50000-50050/udp \
           .....
           ghcr.io/jellyfish-dev/<jellyfish-image-id>
```

For latest jellyfish version use `edge` image.
You can find all available packages here: https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/jellyfish/pkgs/container/jellyfish .
"""

Author: Right now, we need a specific version because it's too risky to use the `edge` version. In the future, we may change it to a placeholder or the edge version, but for now, we need a working pair of Jellyfish and Dashboard

## How to use Jellyfish Dashboard?

Since we have Dashboard and Jellyfish backend up and running, we can dive into
the features.

### Connecting to the server

We started the dashboard and the backend separately, so we need to connect them.

1. Open the dashboard in your browser. Open the side menu and fill in the parameters:

> ![Dashboard server connection](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_server.png)

Reviewer: I feel like one empty line before an image could be cool?

- **Server URL** - URL of the backend server. Here, `localhost:5002` would be a local build, but it can be any URL that points to the backend.
- **Socket Path** - path to the WebSocket endpoint. The default value is `/socket/peer/websocket`.

2. Click **Connect to server**. If everything is correct, a server will appear in the list of connected servers:
![Connected dashboard](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_connected.png)

### Creating a room

There are plenty of settings that You can adjust in a room:
![Adding Room](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_add_room.png)

- **h264 or vp8** - video codec used in the room. If you want to use `HLS` streaming, you need to use `h264`.
- **Max Peers** - maximum number of peers that can join to the room.

When you select the settings, click the **Add room** button. If everything is correct, a room will appear in the list of rooms:
![Room added](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_room_added.png)

### Adding and connecting peers to the room

Using the **Create peer** button, you can create a peer that will be ready to connect to the room.
![Peer created](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_peer_created.png)

> The peer has its `ID` and `Token`. The `ID` is used to identify the peer in the backend, and the `Token` is used to authenticate the peer with the backend.

Reviewer: I wonder about not using `backend` term for Jellyfish. E.g.

```suggestion
The peer has its `ID` and `Token`. The `ID` is used to identify the peer in the Jellyfish Server, and the `Token` is used to authenticate the peer with the Jellyfish Server.
```

My concern is that at some point we might introduce `business logic` term and it can be missleading? Any thoughts? 

We could also introduce some shortcuts at the beggining of tutorial e.g. `Jellyfish Dashboard (JFD)` and `Jellyfish (JF)` and use those shortcuts?

Dashboard has an option to copy both of those values to the clipboard. You can also create a QR code with the peer's `Token` to make connecting to Jellyfish with a mobile device easier.

> ![Peer copied](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_peer_copied.png)

Reviewer: OP :fire:

To connect the peer to the room, you can either press the **Connect** button in the peer's row, or scan the QR code with your mobile app, and connect there.

### Sending tracks

When the peer connects to the room, you will see the track menu. It allows you to send tracks to the room.
![Track menu](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_track_menu.png)

> You can select the _audio or video tracks_ You want to send to the room. Apart from your camera/microphone,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can select the _audio or video tracks_ you want to send to the room. Apart from your camera/microphone,
```

there is an option to pick one from a list of _mock tracks_ that we prepared.

You can also select the _resolution_ of the video track
or if you want, send the video as a _simulcast_ stream.

There is also an option to add custom _metadata_ (in JSON format) to the track. The peer will send metadata with the track to the room. Each recipient will be able to see it.

When you select the track, click the **Add track** button. If everything is correct, client will send the track to the room and other peers
will be able to see and hear you.

### Receiving tracks

When the peer connects to the room, it will automatically receive tracks from other peers.

> #### Congrats! The basic utils of the dashboard are now covered. Next, we will dive into useful features that will help you with testing.

Reviewer: Maybe just using `**some text**` will be enough

## A ton of information that the dashboard provides

### Server logs in console

On the side menu, you can set up the dashboard to show the server logs in the console.
Logs are great for debugging purposes and present the variety of communication that takes place between the dashboard and the backend.

> You can also register your callbacks in your Jellyfish projects.

Reviewer: Would be nice to elaborate what that means

<ImageWrapper
    url={"/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_server_logs.png"}
    height={500}
    alt="Server logs"
/>

### Server/Room/Client state

Each server, room, and client has its state. You can see the state of each of them in the dashboard by clicking appropriate buttons.
![Server state](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_states.png)

### Server events

Apart from the state, you can also see the events that occur on the server.
You can see them after clicking the **Show Server Events** button.

![Server events](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_server_events.png)

## HLS and RTSP streaming

The dashboard allows adding HLS and RTSP streams in the room. You can set up the streams and see them in the room. It will look like this:
![HLS and RTSP](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_hls_rtsp.png)

## Loadbalancing in Dashboard

Jellyfish Server supports load balancing.This means you can run multiple instances of the server and use them simultaneously to minimize the load on each of them.
The dashboard reflects this feature. If you run multiple Jellyfish instances (Docker compose does that by default), connect one server to the dashboard.

> When a server opens a room on a different instance, the dashboard will automatically connect to it and display the room.

Reviewer: Really nice :+1: 

Two suggestions:
* could we link docker-compose we are talking about
* maybe let's explain how it is possible that dashboard automatically sees another Jellyfish instance? I mean that we could mention that Jellyfishes run in a cluster and when JFD asks for a new room it's created on JF with the lowest load and it's IP of JF where the new room was created is returned to the JFD or something like this?
